# Hello, World!

Now you have Noir installed, let's write a simple program to test it out.

## Creating new projects

Open a terminal and enter the following commands to make a projects directory and a directory for our “Hello, world!” project within the projects directory.

For Linux, macOS, and PowerShell on Windows, enter this:

```bash
mkdir ~/projects
cd ~/projects
mkdir hello_world
cd hello_world
```

## Writing a Noir program

Now open the `main.nr` file you just created and enter the code in Listing 1-1.

Filename: main.nr

```rust
use dep::std;

fn main(hash : pub Field, pre_image : Field) {
    let hash_of_pre_image = std::hash::pedersen([pre_image])[0];
    assert(hash == hash_of_pre_image);
}
```

Listing 1-1: A program that proves knowledge of a preimage of a hash function

The purpose of this program is (the Prover) to prove knowledge of a preimage of a hash function.

- The Prover would run the program which takes two arguments, a hash and a preimage. It hashes the preimage and checks that the hash matches the given hash and generates a proof.

- The Verifier can verify the correct execution of our Noir program by verifying the proof generated by the Prover.

## Build input/output files

Next step, Build in/output files for your Noir program by running:

```bash
nargo check
```

Two additional files would be generated in your project directory:

- `Prover.toml` containts input values known to the Prover,

- `Verifier.toml` contains public values shown to the Verifier.

Fill up the `Prover.toml` file with the following values:

```toml
hash = "0x03fdabb754f4f499c12406532fc924264db1b70702888a191683157056334d61"
pre_image = "0"
```

The `Verifier.toml` file should contain only the hash value:

```toml
hash = "0x03fdabb754f4f499c12406532fc924264db1b70702888a191683157056334d61"
```

## Prove our Noir program

Prove the valid execution of our Noir program with your preferred proof name, for example `p`:

```bash
nargo prove p
```

A new folder `proofs` would then be generated in your project directory, containing the proof file `p.proof`.

## Verify our Noir program

Once a proof is generated, we can verify correct execution of our Noir program by verifying the proof file, by running:

```bash
nargo verify p
```

If the verification complete successfully the Termial won't show any information. If it fails, it will log the corresponding error instead.

# Summary

You have successfully written, proved and verified your first Noir program! Let's recap what we have learned:

- Install Noir and Nargo using noirup

- Create a new Noir project

- Write a first Noir program

- Build input/output files which used by our Noir program

- Prove and verify our Noir program using Nargo CLI

In the next chapter, we will break down the program we just wrote and explain what each part does in detail.
